# AI Policy

[//]: # (This policy is copied at https://github.com/pulp/.github/blob/main/profile/README.md . They need to be kept in sync.)

## Pulp Project Policy on AI Generated Content / AI Assisted Coding

We have received questions about the stance of the Pulp Project on AI Generated and AI Assisted contributions to our project.
Open source software has existed and adapted to an always changing landscape in the world of technology.
AI Generated/Assisted content is another chapter in that long history.
The Pulp Project team allows the usage of AI Generated/Assisted content as long as it follows the guiding principles of Open Source development as well as our own policies & licenses.
We want to maintain an open, collaborative, and inclusive environment with our contributors, partners, and stakeholders.

In addition, we feel that there must always be a human involved in the process on both the contribution and the review side to make sure that we are maintaining a safe environment for others.
We expect the contributor to review any code that was generated and our review process will always have a human engineer to inspect, request changes, and merge any contribution into our code base.
We reserve the right to deny any contribution for any reason.

There are three rules for code contributions to the Pulp Project:

1. **All contributors must indicate in the commit message of their contribution if they used AI to create them and the contributor is fully responsible for the content that they submit.**

    This can be a label such as `Assisted By: <Tool>` or `Generated by: <Tool>` based on what was used.
    This label should be representative of the contribution and how it was created for full transparency.
    The commit message must also be clear about how it is solving a problem/making an improvement if it is not immediately obvious.

2. **If there are any copyrighted materials that are included in any contribution, the author must confirm that they have permission to use that material from the owners.**

    This can be in the form of an open source license, public domain declaration, or other proof that complies with the Pulp Project's licensing policy.
    This evidence must be included prior to contribution to the project.

3. **All AI contributions must follow the definition of Open Source as well as any applicable policies & licenses that the Pulp Project uses.**
